Huh...
Where are we?
Come on! Start!
Ugh.
Guess we're stuck here.
Huh?
Haven't you given up yet?
I don't give up that easy.
She hasn't seen the last of me.
Hmm.
What is this place anyway?
Hey, Tails, you oughtta
get some sleep.
I don't have time to sleep.
Not until I find out
the truth about Cosmo.
Where do you think
you're going, Sonic?
You need your rest.
Don't worry, Amy. I'm okay.
Huh!
Hey!
I've got to follow him.
Uhh!
Huh?
Hiya!
[Gasp]
Not you!
Heh.
There's no communication
device anywhere.
I told you so!
Hang on a minute.
[Beeping]
Huh?
You got something?
There's some kind
of invisible signal
emanating from Cosmo's brain.
It's so microscopic,
normal radar wouldn't
pick up on it.
So Cosmo really has been beaming
information to the Metarex.
Can we stop it?
I'm not so sure.
If we do, she'll never be the same.
Whatever it is, it's attached
to the part of Cosmo's brain
that controls her
sight and hearing.
If we remove it, she may
never see or hear again.
Hmm...
Grr!
That's a chance we'll have to take.
How can you say
something like that!
I'm not letting anyone hurt Cosmo!
No one wants to hurt her!
We just want to set her free!
And if she has to lose her
eyes and ears, then so be it!
There has to be another way!
We're on the same team, you guys!
I'm not the bad guy here.
I just want what's
best for all of us.
Okay.
We've just gotta think
this through calmly.
I know this isn't
easy for you, Tails.
And I wish we had another
choice, but we don't.
Either we do this,
or we sacrifice ourselves
to the will of Dark Oak.
I think it's pretty clear
what we have to do.
Go, go, go, go, go
Gotta go fast
Gotta go faster, faster,
faster, faster, faster
Movin' at the speed of sound,
quickest hedgehog around
Got ourselves a situation
Stuck in a new location
Without any explanation
No talk of relaxation
Don't, don't, don't
Don't blink, don't think
Just go, go, go, go
Go, go
Sonic is on the run
Sonic, he's number one
Sonic, he's coming next,
so watch out for Sonic X
-Gotta go fast
-Sonic
Gotta go faster, faster,
faster, faster, faster
Go, go, go, go, go, go, go
Sonic X
Gotta go faster,
gotta go fast
Gotta go faster, faster,
faster, faster
Sonic X
I'll have you know, the only
reason I haven't tossed you out
of this plane is
because I was hoping
you could give me some information.
ROUGE: About what?
I want you to tell me everything
you know about Cosmo.
What makes you think
I know anything?
Hey, Pinkie, slow this
thing down, will ya?
No. Not until you tell
me what you're up to.
Why were you and
Shadow after Cosmo?
The Metarex were using
your friend as a spy.
I should think you guys
would be thanking us.
But what do you and Shadow
have to do with it?
Shouldn't you be keeping
your eyes on the skies?
Hey, don't change the subject!
Watch out!
Ah!
[Sigh]
Aah!
ROUGE: Oh, Knuckie!
Yeah? What?
Goodness, what a charming
"hello" that was.
Well, well, if it
isn't Rouge the rat.
You've got a lot of nerve.
You think I'm gonna make nice...
He's going off. Here, talk to him.
Knuckles, it's me.
Rouge and I figured
out where we are.
Oh, yeah?
You won't believe this.
It's their home planet...
Cosmo's and the Metarex.
You are looking upon
Planet Green Gate.
We lived here long ago, before
a terrible darkness befell us.
Everything has been destroyed.
All that is left
is long since dead.
I have come to tell you our story
and that of the evil Metarex.
[Grunting]
Well, you know, you really
outdid yourself this time,
trying to hurt a harmless
little kid like Cosmo.
I just can't seem to
figure you out, Shadow.
You really are a mystery.
Hmph!
[Grunt]
You'd just better watch
your back, Shadow.
Well, what's stopping you, Sonic?
Here's your big chance.
Nah, I'm not in the mood to fight.
But when I am, you'll be
the first to know, pal.
Huh!
We were once a thriving
civilization,
but then came the time
of the Great Calamity.
It was long ago.
A war began that soon threatened
to spread to the far
reaches of the galaxy.
[Crowd ruckus]
Uhhh!
I have to act quickly!
Perhaps the transformation
will last this time!
Landar!
[Roaring]
[Growling]
[Whimpering]
[Groan]
Aah!
[Crying]
The citizens of our planet
are in grave danger.
While the enemy is
getting stronger,
we are losing more
soldiers by the minute.
The evolutionary process
is unnaturally fast.
It has yet to be perfected.
Something must be done.
We must find a way to make
the transformation last.
We cannot continue to let
our men destroy themselves.
My own husband perished
only yesterday,
and unless something is done,
I am afraid thousands more
will meet the same fate.
It is time for us to leave here.
Perhaps we will return
to our home one day,
but now, it is too dangerous.
What is that?
It is a blessed amulet.
It will protect us on our journey.
Journey?
How dare you?
You want us to simply
give in to the enemy?
Never!
Lucas!
I won't do it.
I have never been a coward, and
I won't become one for you.
You will do as I say.
I have gone along with
you this far, Earthia.
But I refuse to let those that have
fallen before me perish in vain!
Ugh!
If you won't respect my decision,
you can stay behind and
fight the enemy yourself.
Very well.
Earthia, do you think we will ever
return here once the war is over?
No one knows what the future will
hold for our planet, Starla.
We will have to wait and see.
Earthia, come quickly!
Something is happening
to the trees outside!
What do you mean?
Lucas!
Huh? Yes, Earthia?
[Panting] You must help.
There is something happening.
It's awful. Everything
outside is suddenly dying.
[Gasp]
What is that?
It is the Planet Egg,
the entire energy supply of our
planet in crystallized form.
In its powers, I have
discovered a way for the
transformation to last...
a way for us to fight
our enemy forever.
Have you gone mad?
Just the opposite.
With such a thing as this,
we will be more than mere beasts!
We will rise up, and we
will claim our victory.
Finally!
Earthia, this is what
we've been waiting for!
But, Lucas, our people have always
honored the natural world.
How could you do it?
[Crying]
Hmm?
Earthia?
Ugh!
You! You have betrayed
your own people.
You have destroyed
everything that was ours,
faster than any enemy!
You were the one who
wanted to leave here.
I haven't betrayed anyone!
You have!
You're wrong!
We will crystallize the power of
every planet in the known galaxy.
We will have the strength
of a thousand armies!
You are mad.
[Crying]
Let go!
We will lay waste to the enemy.
And with our newfound power,
we will create a new order.
No... Please...
Stop!
Grr.
[Roaring]
[Crowds screaming]
Earthia, I'm afraid hundreds
of beasts are still resisting.
We have no choice
but to destroy them.
[All Gasp]
They will bring darkness upon the
galaxy if we do not stop them.
May we be granted divine protection
as we travel to a more peaceful world.
We are not yet finished.
Our transformation is not complete.
The final stages are upon us.
Soon, we shall rule
through space and time.
You tried to destroy us, Earthia,
but we are indestructible.
We will live on, and all our
enemies shall bow before us.
We will have our revenge.
Only four of those who
remained here survived.
In time, Lucas became the Metarex
leader known as Dark Oak.
He and his fellow revolutionaries
continue to cause chaos
throughout the galaxy.
Please, do everything you can.
They must be stopped.
That explains a lot.
Huh?
Oh!
Sonic!
We've gotta stop these guys.
Cosmo, you must be
awfully hungry by now.
Why don't you let me make
you something to eat, okay?
My mother taught me how to make
the most delicious sugar cookies.
Leave me alone.
Cosmo!
Chao!
Please, you two, just go.
Don't you know it's
dangerous to be around me?
You're wrong!
Chao chao chao chao chao chao!
You're our friend, Cosmo.
What they say...
it's just not true.
It is!
But how?
I can't be anybody's friend,
not when I'm secretly
working for the enemy.
Just stay away!
I'm no good anyway.
Shadow should have
finished me off by now.
No, please don't say that, Cosmo.
We all love you...
even if you are a
spy like they say.
Huh?
I'm sorry.
Get out.
Just leave me alone.
Please don't cry.
I said go!
[Sobbing]
Chao chao!
[Gasp]
I can hear them.
I can hear them inside
my head... Echoing
Hey there, Chris!
You still up here working?
Finally makin' some headway.
This stuff is pretty complex.
Well, if anyone can figure
it out, it's you, buddy.
Hmm.
Man, there sure is a lot of
data inside of this thing.
Anything interesting?
Plenty. In fact, I'm
still downloading it all.
There's a lot I
haven't figured out,
but what I have is pretty amazing,
like this stuff here.
Remember the data Tails
and Cosmo collected
from that underground
Metarex factory?
Well, I was able to cross-reference
it, and here's what I foundâ
It's some kind of plan to wipe out
flesh and blood creatures of all
kinds until the whole galaxy is populated
only by trees and plant life.
Plant life... there it is.
There's the whole Cosmo connection.
Why didn't we see
it back then, Sonic?
How else could she have figured
out that Metarex language?
Maybe we could have done something.
Maybe it would have
been different ifâ
Dwelling on the past isn't
gonna make it any easier, pal.
Yeah, I suppose you're right.
I just don't want to see
anybody get hurt, that's all.
Ah!
Tails was so upset before.
Poor guy's heart is breaking.
Not to mention Cosmo...
Can't be easy for her.
We'll get through it, pal.
Huh?
We've been through worse before.
And we made it through okay, right?
Mm.
SONIC: It's gonna be okay.
One day all of this will
be over, I promise.
TAILS: Where are you going?
[Gasp]
Please, Tails.
I'm leaving. You can't stop me.
I don't understand where you'll go.
To fight Dark Oak.
Though I'm not sure
what good it will do.
You can't go alone, Cosmo.
Yes, I can.
You'll be much safer
when I'm not around.
I can't stay here.
Don't you understand?
They're using my
eyes to spy on you.
They're listening through my ears.
They're using me to betray you.
It's not your fault, Cosmo.
I feel so lost.
I just don't know what to do.
It's okay.
I feel like I don't even
know who I am anymore.
You're my friend, that's who.
I've done nothing but
bring you trouble,
so how can you still call
me your friend, Tails?
'Cause those Metarex can use your
eyes and ears all they want,
but they can never have your heart.
Hm?
You're not leaving
without us, are you?
Oh!
If you're gonna fight Dark Oak,
we're gonna fight with you!
Chao chao!
Me too!
Those Meta-dopes might
need a knuckle sandwich.
"Knuckle sandwich?"
Gee, that was real clever.
Who asked you?
Really?
We all talked it over together,
and we want to help our friend.
See? It's just like I said, Cosmo.
It doesn't matter
what the Metarex do.
We all know that you're
really our friend.
That's what matters.
Thank you, Tails. Thank you all!
[Crying]
You're all fools.
You maybe right.
If being a fool means helping a
friend when they're in trouble
instead of turning your back on
them, then that's what we are.
You don't have to go, Shadow.
Why don't you stick around
and help us defeat them?
They may be using Cosmo,
but it's not her fault.
And who knows?
Maybe we can use their
own weapon against them.
Come on. What do you say?
Will you stay?
No matter what you say,
your friend Cosmo is a
Metarex spy, and that's
all there is to it.
It's not that simple.
Uh!
Shadow! Emergency!
Hey, what's he doing here?
Please help, Shadow.
I'm begging you!
The Metarex have taken
Eggman prisoner!
Huh!
How dare you treat us
like common criminals?
There is nothing common about us!
You are under arrest for stealing
top secret information.
We have been watching you
for a very long time.
How dare you have us
under surveillance?
Yeah, we should arrest you
for spying and for stealing
the doctor's brilliant
technological innovations.
I'm afraid that would not be
possible, my jailbird friends.
You would be best to just sit
tight and enjoy your stay.
Come back here, you Meta-clown!
You let us out of here!
I'm talking to you!
Come back!
Master, all preparations
have been completed.
We are ready to move forward.
[Sinister laughter]
Master?
Well, Earthia, it seems
your daughter has decided
to continue in her
mother's footsteps.
But I'm afraid she is
just as misguided as you.
All of the lights
have been gathered.
The time has come.
The forestation project
is about to begin.
[Evil laughter]